User Story Analysis:

Story 0
As a user, assuming I have access to a modern web browser (Chrome) with an internet connection and I am visiting the page
Affects scope limitations only.

Story 1
    I would like to see a list/grid of bikes based on /app/bikes.json
To test this: 
Part A - is a grid/list shown? Check  class = prodList is present in relevant div.
Part B - is it based on bikes.json?
Hard to confirm without parsing JSON & making comparison.
Could be as simple as comparison of number of displayed bikes vs number of elements in JSON array.
OR Parse JSON directly, validate it & compare to displayed bikes in grid, confirming each named bike is present & alongside appropriate image, class, description etc.

Story 2
    I would like to see a the name, an image, a description and the class for each bike
To test this: Locate element locators for each requirement, cycle through the repeating classes to confirm for each bike displayed.

Story 3
    I would like to be able to sort the bikes into a custom order based on class
To test this: Confirm that each filter checkbox works - i.e. that all bikes displayed have classes containing the selected filter. Use class element locator found in above test.

Story 4
    I would like my custom order to be saved and not change when I refresh the page
To test this: Load the page, check a filter box, refresh the page, and confirm the checkbox is still checked. Repeat for all other filters.    

Initial Thoughts:
#1
If treated as a whitebox test, I could pull in the whole JSON data object &  compare to page for accuracy - i.e. every bike has the correct images & data shown against it.

I don't think this is what we're after, a blackbox test is more appropriate.

Decision: Other than examining the JSON manually, I'll treat this exercise as a blackbox test, and run tests only on the app page itself.
Update: The open-uri gem is the best route to parse & validate the JSON.
I've decided it is worthwhile accessing the JSON directly & comparing to the page contents.

#2
Use Ruby, Rspec & Selenium WebDriver to accomplish the task.

Assumptions:
Assume the JSON is valididated already when generated, so don't directly parse the json file.
Assume that grid & list behave substantially the same, so no need to test both.
Update: Assume that all filter checkboxes are unticked for a new site visitor.
Update: Assume that the sort order of bikes on the pages matches that in the JSON. I note that the id parameters from the JSON aren't present on the page, so alpha-numeric sorting via bike name is the only other option.
Only test on Chrome on Desktop rather than mobile.
Assume a reasonable screen size such that the desktop 3xN grid is shown. 
Assume that the specific image & description shown for each bike matters - rather than just *an* image being shown etc.

Re user story:
The page obviously doesn't *sort* bikes based on the class checkboxes, but rather filters based on them. I'm going to assume that the wording of the user story here is an oversight, and you don't want me to re-write the app / make a test for something that isn't included.

I will write my testing assuming the story should instead read:
- I would like to be able to FILTER the bikes shown based on class.
- I would like my FILTER to be saved and not change when I refresh the page.

Scope:
Chrome Desktop Browser only to be tested.
Average Screensize.
